---
layout: post
title:  "Merging PDF in *nix Terminal"
date:   2017-07-20 00:03:59 +1000
permalink: merging-pdf-in-nix-terminal
---

Another reason to fall in love with *nix OS. I found it very easy to merge several PDF documents.

There are several different commands that you can use for merging PDFs. In this post, I just describe the three that I used. Please note that I'm using MacOS, but according to [the source][stackoverflow-thread], I believe it works as well in any Linux distros.


### 1. Using *pdfunite* command

The first command is using `pdfunite` command. The usage is pretty straight forward, just type `pdfunite` followed by the PDF filenames and ends with the desired output PDF filename. The command looks as following:

```
$ pdfunite in1.pdf in2.pdf in3.pdf out.pdf
```

<span style="color:red">WARNING: If you don't supply the output PDF filename, `pdfunite` will overwrite the last PDF input file.</span>

### 2. Using *pdfjoin* command

In my case, using the above `pdfunite` commmand was unsuccessful due to an encrypted input file. As an alternative, you can use `pdfjoin` instead.

```
$ pdfjoin in1.pdf in.pdf in3.pdf
```

If you notice, one of notable differences is that the `pdfjoin` doesn't require the output filename. The result will be a file named the last input file followed by "-joined" string.

However, the drawback of `pdfjoin` is that it doesn't compress the file. It ends up with a pretty large file size depending on the individual files' sizes.

### 3. Using *ghostscript* command

The next and last one is using `ghostscript`. This is by far the best way to join, and subsequently compress, PDF files. I ended up getting the output file only one-fifth of the output file size that generated by `pdfjoin`.

Use the following commands to 

```shell
$ gs -sDEVICE=pdfwrite -dCompatibilityLevel=1.4 -dPDFSETTINGS=/default -dNOPAUSE -dQUIET -dBATCH -dDetectDuplicateImages -dCompressFonts=true -r150 -sOutputFile=output.pdf in1.pdf in2.pdf in3.pdf
```

That's it! Checkout the [original thread][stackoverflow-thread] for a richer discussion.

[stackoverflow-thread]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2507766/merge-convert-multiple-pdf-files-into-one-pdf